Introduce CVA to html-extra (#4006)
twigphp/Twig: doc/functions/html_cva.rst

> ``cva``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``html_cva``
```

=======

`CVA (Class Variant Authority)`_ is a concept from the JavaScript world and used
by the well-known `shadcn/ui`_.

> The Cva concept is used to render multiple variations of components, applying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CVA concept is used to render multiple variations of components, applying
```

a set of conditions and recipes to dynamically compose CSS class strings (color, size, etc.),

> to create highly reusable and customizable templates. This function work best by being combined with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create highly reusable and customizable templates. This function works best when used with
```

> `TwigComponent`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TwigComponent`_.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: Should be moved to the end of the doc.

Reviewer: It has still not been moved to the **end** of the page.

    The ``html_cva`` function is part of the ``HtmlExtension`` which is not
    installed by default. Install it first:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ composer require twig/html-extra

    Then, on Symfony projects, install the ``twig/extra-bundle``:

> This is powered by a ``html_cva()`` Twig

Reviewer: Not sure what "This is" refers to.

function where you define ``base`` classes that should always be present and then different
``variants`` and the corresponding classes:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/alert.html.twig #}

>     {% set alert = html_cva({

Reviewer 2: Is this still the correct signature? (one big array VS arguments)

        base: 'alert ',
        variants: {
            color: {
                blue: 'bg-blue',
                red: 'bg-red',
                green: 'bg-green',
            },
            size: {
                sm: 'text-sm',
                md: 'text-md',
                lg: 'text-lg',
            }
        }
    }) %}

>     <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class)) }}">

Reviewer 2: This syntax does not feel valid

        ...
    </div>

> Then use the ``color`` and ``size`` variants to select the classes needed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then use the ``color`` and ``size`` variants to select the needed classes:
```

.. code-block:: twig

>     {# index.html.twig #}

Reviewer 2: Probably best to use the twig _function_ here ([recommanded](https://twig.symfony.com/doc/2.x/tags/include.html#include) instead of the _tag_)

    {% include 'alert.html.twig' with {'color': 'blue', 'size': 'md'} %}
    // class="alert bg-red text-lg"

    {% include 'alert.html.twig' with {'color': 'green', 'size': 'sm'} %}
    // class="alert bg-green text-sm"

    {% include 'alert.html.twig' with {'color': 'red', 'class': 'flex items-center justify-center'} %}
    // class="alert bg-red text-md flex items-center justify-center"

CVA and Tailwind CSS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CVA work perfectly with Tailwind CSS. The only drawback is that you can have class conflicts.
To "merge" conflicting classes together and keep only the ones you need, use the
``tailwind_merge()`` filter from `tales-from-a-dev/twig-tailwind-extra`_
with the ``html_cva()`` function:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require tales-from-a-dev/twig-tailwind-extra

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {% set alert = html_cva({
       // ...

>     }) %}

Reviewer 2: Update array / arguments here too ?

>     <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class) | tailwind_merge }}">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class)|tailwind_merge }}">
```

         ...
    </div>

Compound Variants
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can define compound variants. A compound variant is a variant that applies

> when multiple other variant conditions are met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when multiple other variant conditions are met:
```

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {% set alert = html_cva({

>         base: 'alert ',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        base: 'alert',
```

``html_cva``

> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==========
```

`CVA (Class Variant Authority)`_ is a concept from the JavaScript world and used

> by the well-known `shadcn/ui`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the well-known `shadcn/ui`_ library.
```
?

function where you define ``base`` classes that should always be present and then different
``variants`` and the corresponding classes:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/alert.html.twig #}
    {% set alert = html_cva(
        base='alert ',
        variants={
            color: {
                blue: 'bg-blue',
                red: 'bg-red',
                green: 'bg-green',
            },
            size: {
                sm: 'text-sm',
                md: 'text-md',
                lg: 'text-lg',
            }
        }
    }) %}

    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class)) }}">
        ...
    </div>

Then use the ``color`` and ``size`` variants to select the needed classes:

.. code-block:: twig

    {# index.html.twig #}
    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {'color': 'blue', 'size': 'md'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-red text-lg"

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {'color': 'green', 'size': 'sm'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-green text-sm"

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {'color': 'red', 'class': 'flex items-center justify-center'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-red text-md flex items-center justify-center"

CVA and Tailwind CSS

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---------------------------
```

CVA work perfectly with Tailwind CSS. The only drawback is that you can have class conflicts.
To "merge" conflicting classes together and keep only the ones you need, use the
``tailwind_merge()`` filter from `tales-from-a-dev/twig-tailwind-extra`_
with the ``html_cva()`` function:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require tales-from-a-dev/twig-tailwind-extra

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {% set alert = html_cva(
       // ...
    ) %}

    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class)|tailwind_merge }}">
         ...
    </div>

Compound Variants

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-----------------------
```

You can define compound variants. A compound variant is a variant that applies
when multiple other variant conditions are met:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {% set alert = html_cva(
        base='alert',
        variants={
            color: {
                blue: 'bg-blue',
                red: 'bg-red',
                green: 'bg-green',
            },
            size: {
                sm: 'text-sm',
                md: 'text-md',
                lg: 'text-lg',
            }
        },
        compoundVariants=[{
            // if color = red AND size = (md or lg), add the `font-bold` class
            color: ['red'],
            size: ['md', 'lg'],
            class: 'font-bold'
        }]
    ) %}

    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}) }}">
         ...
    </div>

    {# index.html.twig #}

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {color: 'red', size: 'lg'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-red text-lg font-bold"

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {color: 'green', size: 'sm'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-green text-sm"

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {color: 'red', size: 'md'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-green text-lg font-bold"

Default Variants

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---------------------
```

If no variants match, you can define a default set of classes to apply:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {% set alert = html_cva(
        base='alert ',
        variants={
            color: {
                blue: 'bg-blue',
                red: 'bg-red',
                green: 'bg-green',
            },
            size: {
                sm: 'text-sm',
                md: 'text-md',
                lg: 'text-lg',
            },
            rounded: {
                sm: 'rounded-sm',
                md: 'rounded-md',
                lg: 'rounded-lg',
            }
        },
        defaultVariants={
            rounded: 'md',
        }
    ) %}

    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}) }}">
         ...
    </div>

    {# index.html.twig #}

    {{ include('alert.html.twig', {color: 'red', size: 'lg'}) }}
    // class="alert bg-red text-lg font-bold rounded-md"

.. note::

    The ``html_cva`` function is part of the ``HtmlExtension`` which is not
    installed by default. Install it first:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ composer require twig/html-extra

>     Then, on Symfony projects, install the ``twig/extra-bundle``:

Reviewer: Missing contents here.

``html_cva``

> ==========

Reviewer: Still not the right amount of `=` ;)

`CVA (Class Variant Authority)`_ is a concept from the JavaScript world and used
by the well-known `shadcn/ui`_ library.
The CVA concept is used to render multiple variations of components, applying
a set of conditions and recipes to dynamically compose CSS class strings (color, size, etc.),
to create highly reusable and customizable templates.

The concept of CVA is powered by a ``html_cva()`` Twig
function where you define ``base`` classes that should always be present and then different
``variants`` and the corresponding classes:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/alert.html.twig #}
    {% set alert = html_cva(
        base='alert ',
        variants={
            color: {
                blue: 'bg-blue',
                red: 'bg-red',
                green: 'bg-green',
            },
            size: {
                sm: 'text-sm',
                md: 'text-md',
                lg: 'text-lg',
            }
        }

>     }) %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ) %}
```

>     <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class)) }}">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="{{ alert.apply({color, size}, class) }}">
```
